---
toc: true
title: Configuration
navigation: true
published: false
---

# Setting up `SearchLight` for database access

You can get the most out of Genie by pairing it with its seamless ORM layer, SearchLight. As a native Julia
ORM, it provides excellent support for working with relational databases. The Genie + SearchLight combo can be used to
productively develop CRUD (Create-Read-Update-Delete) apps in which where resources are created, read, updated, and deleted.

<!-- SearchLight represents the "M" part in Genie's MVC architecture (thus, the Model layer). -->


### Adding a database adapter

Let's begin by adding SearchLight to our Genie app. All Genie apps manage their dependencies in their own Julia environment,
through their `Project.toml` and `Manifest.toml` files.

Enter `pkg> ` mode first by typing `]` in julian mode, ie: `julia>]`. The cursor should change to `(MyGenieApp) pkg>`. Next, add `SearchLight`:

```julia
(MyGenieApp) pkg> add SearchLight
```

### Setting up the database connection

`SearchLight` provides a database agnostic API for working with various backends (at the moment, MySQL, SQLite, Postgres
and Oracle). Thus, we also need to add the specific adapter. To keep things simple, let's use SQLite for our app.
Hence, we'll need the `SearchLightSQLite` package:

```julia
(MyGenieApp) pkg> add SearchLightSQLite
```

Genie is designed to seamlessly integrate with SearchLight and provides access to various database oriented generators.
First we need to tell Genie/SearchLight how to connect to the database. Let's use them to set up our database support.
Run this in the Genie/Julia REPL:

```julia
julia> Genie.Generator.db_support()
```

The command will add a `db/` folder within the root of the app. The `db/connection.yml` file
tells SearchLight how to connect to the database.

```yaml [connection.yml]
env: ENV["GENIE_ENV"]

dev:
  adapter: SQLite
  database: db/books.sqlite
  config:
```

This instructs SearchLight to run in the environment of the current Genie app (by default `dev`), using `SQLite` for
the adapter (backend) and a database stored at `db/books.sqlite`. The database will be created automatically if it does
not exist. We could pass extra configuration options in the `config` object, but for now we don't need anything else.

---
**HEADS UP**

If you are using a different adapter, make sure that the database configured already exists and that the configured user
can successfully access it -- SearchLight will not attempt to create the database.

---

After configuring the connection, we can ask SearchLight to load it up:

```julia
julia> using SearchLight

julia> SearchLight.Configuration.load()
Dict{String,Any} with 4 entries:
  "options"  => Dict{String,String}()
  "config"   => nothing
  "database" => "db/books.sqlite"
  "adapter"  => "SQLite"
```

Let's just go ahead and try it out by connecting to the DB:

```julia
julia> using SearchLightSQLite

julia> SearchLight.Configuration.load() |> SearchLight.connect
```

This should return a `SQLite.DB("db/books.sqlite")` object. If that is the case, the connection succeeded and we got
back a SQLite database handle.

---
**PRO TIP**

Each database adapter exposes a `CONNECTIONS` collection where we can access the connection:

```julia
julia> SearchLightSQLite.CONNECTIONS
1-element Array{SQLite.DB,1}:
 SQLite.DB("db/books.sqlite")
```

---

Awesome! If all went well you should have a `books.sqlite` database in the `db/` folder.

```julia
shell> tree db
db
├── books.sqlite
├── connection.yml
├── migrations
└── seeds
```


---



### Auto-loading the DB configuration

Genie comes with a special file called an initializer, which automatically loads the database configuration and sets up
SearchLight. Check `config/initializers/searchlight.jl` to see how this is done.

---
**Heads up!**

All the `*.jl` files placed into the `config/initializers/` folder are automatically included by Genie upon starting the
Genie app. They are included early (upon initialisation), before the controllers, models, views, are loaded.

---




