---
title: Troubleshooting
description: How to solve common issues with Genie Builder.
toc: true
---

### Resetting Genie Builder

On first launch, Genie Builder will create a configuration folder in `~/.geniebuilder`. To reset the extension, delete the configuration folder and launch Genie Builder again. You'll be asked to log in like the first time you launched the extension.


### Code not reloading when changed

Genie Builder uses `Revise` to handle code reloading in the `app.jl` file. If you place files in the `lib` folder, they should be reloaded automatically. When importing code with `include`, it will not automatically reload when changed. You'll need to use `Revise`'s `includet` function instead.


### App in bugged state

If your app is showing a bug icon, check the terminal for any errors or read through the [logs](https://learn.genieframework.com/docs/genie-builder/usage-guide#debugging-apps).

### Importing static assets

Place static assets like images and stylesheets in the `public` folder. For example, in the visual editor, an image in `public/logo.png` can be added with an image component and the image path set to  `/logo.png`.

In the Julia code, to include assets with the `add_script` and `add_css` functions, you'll have to specify the full path:

```julia
Stipple.Layout.add_css("public/styles.css")
Stipple.Layout.add_script("public/script.js")
```


### App not starting

There could be several reasons why an app is not starting after loading it in Genie Builder:

- Missing packages: make sure to install all the dependencies with the package manager before adding any imports to `app.jl`.
- Bug in the code: if there are bugs in the code, the app will not run. Check the terminal and the [logs](https://learn.genieframework.com/docs/genie-builder/usage-guide#debugging-apps).
- Long startup: on a first run, setting up the Genie Builder can take a few minutes.
