---
title: NGINX reverse proxy
description: How to use NGINX as a reverse proxy to serve multiple Genie apps and improve performance.
---

# NGINX reverse proxy

When used as a reverse proxy, NGINX will listen requests made on port 80 (HTTP) and redirect traffic to the Genie app running on port 8000 (default Genie setting that can be changed).

To improve the app's performance, NGINX will also be used to serve the app static files. That is, the content under the `./public` folder.

Finally, it can as well handle HTTPS requests, which will also be redirected to the Genie app listening on port 8000.

First, install NGINX with:

```sh
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nginx
sudo systemctl start nginx
sudo systemctl enable nginx
```

A configuration file then needs to to be created to indicate on which port to listen (80 for HTTP) and to which port to redirect the traffic (8000 for the default Genie config).

Create a config file in `/etc/nginx/sites-available` with `sudo nano my-genie-app`. Then, add the following to `my-genie-app`:

```sh
server {
  listen 80;
  listen [::]:80;

  server_name   test.com;
  root          /home/ubuntu/MyGenieApp/public;
  index         welcome.html;

  location / {
      proxy_pass http://localhost:8000/;
  }

  location /css/genie {
      proxy_pass http://localhost:8000/;
  }
  location /img/genie {
      proxy_pass http://localhost:8000/;
  }
  location /js/genie {
      proxy_pass http://localhost:8000/;
  }
}
```

- `server_name`: refers to the web domain to be used. It can be put to an arbitrary name if the app is only to be served directly from the server public IP.
- `root`: points to the `public` subfolder where the genie app was cloned.
- `index`: refers to the site index (the landing page).
- The various `location` following the initial proxy to the genie app are used to indicate static content folders to be served by nginx. These are needed when the `server_handle_static_file` is set to `false` in the Genie app settings.

To enable the reverse proxy, add the config file to the `sites-enabled` with a symlink:

```sh
sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/my-genie-app /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/my-genie-app
```

Then restart the server to make changes effective:

```sh
sudo systemctl restart nginx
```

## Enabling HTTPS

To enable HTTPS, a site-certificate will be needed for the domain on which the site will be served.
A practical approach is to use the utilities provided by [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/).

Following provided instructions for NGINX on Ubuntu 20.04:

```sh
sudo snap install core; sudo snap refresh core
sudo snap install --classic certbot
sudo ln -s /snap/bin/certbot /usr/bin/certbot
```

Then, using the certbot utility, a certificate will be generated and appropriate modification to NGINX config will be made to handle support for HTTPS:

```sh
sudo certbot --nginx
```

Note that this step will check for ownership of the `test.com` domain mentioned in the NGINX config file. For that validation to succeed, it requires to have the `A` record for the domain set to `123.123.123.123`.

