# Adding your Julia code

Newly created apps, consist of just two files: `app.jl` and `app.jl.html`. `app.jl` is the entry point to the app, and any code in it will be executed. This is also where you'll write the app's logic, which is the code that manages the interaction between the Julia code and the web UI. Then, `app.jl.html` contains the UI generated by Genie Builder. 

To add your Julia code, there are two possibilities:

1. Writing it in `app.jl`.
2. Writing it in a separate file and importing it into `app.jl`.

Choosing one or another depends on the complexity, scale and organization of your code.


## Writing Julia code in app.jl

The default `app.jl` comes populated with 

1. The import of the `GenieFramework` package. 
2. A block delimited by the `@handlers` macro, which is where later on you'll add reactive code to handle user interaction.
3. A call to the `@page` macro to render the UI.

Your code, with all the function and object definitions, should be placed between the package imports and the `@handlers` macro as in the example below.

```julia{6-8}
module App
using StatsBase: mean, std, var
using GenieFramework
@genietools

function statistics(x)
  mean(x), std(x), var(x)
end

@app begin
    # reactive code goes here
end

@page("/", "app.jl.html")
end
```

## Writing Julia code in separate files

For easier debugging and better organization, it is best to put your analysis code in a separate file. In order to call a piece of code from `app.jl`, the corresponding file must be imported first with `include`. Moreover, it is recommended that the code is wrapped into a module to avoid conflicts with the app's logic.

::code-group
````julia [app.jl]
module App
include("stats.jl")
using .Stats
using GenieFramework
@genietools

@app begin
    # reactive code goes here
end

@page("/", "app.jl.html")
end
````
````julia [stats.jl]
module Stats 
    export statistics
    function statistics(x)
        mean(x), std(x), var(x)
    end
end
````
::
