---
title: Configuration
description: Configuring the Genie server
---

# Configuring the server

You can set different configurations per environment `dev`, `prod`, `test` or `global` by creating a file in `config/env/`. For instance, you can create a `config/env/dev.jl` file with the following content:

```julia
using Genie, Logging

Genie.Configuration.config!(
  server_port                     = 8000,
  server_host                     = "127.0.0.1",
  log_level                       = Logging.Info,
  log_to_file                     = false,
  server_handle_static_files      = true,
  path_build                      = "build",
  format_julia_builds             = true,
  format_html_output              = true,
  watch                           = true
)

ENV["JULIA_REVISE"] = "auto"
```
This file will be loaded when `ENV["GENIE_ENV"]="dev"`. Then, for production, you can add another file `config/env/prod.jl` with:

```julia
using Genie, Logging

Genie.Configuration.config!(
  server_port                     = 8000,
  server_host                     = "0.0.0.0",
  log_level                       = Logging.Error,
  log_to_file                     = false,
  server_handle_static_files      = true, # for best performance set up Nginx or Apache web proxies and set this to false
  path_build                      = "build",
  format_julia_builds             = false,
  format_html_output              = false
)

ENV["JULIA_REVISE"] = "off"
```

Finally, if you create a `config/env/global.jl` file, it will be loaded for all environments.

The configuration is stored in a `Genie.Configuration.Settings` struct, which has these fields:

- `server_port::Int`: the port for running the web server (default 8000)
- `server_host::String`: the host for running the web server (default "127.0.0.1")
- `server_document_root::String`: path to the document root (default "public/")
- `server_handle_static_files::Bool`: if `true`, Genie will also serve static files. In production, it is recommended to serve static files with a web server like Nginx.
- `server_signature::String`: Genie's signature used for tagging the HTTP responses. If empty, it will not be added.
- `app_env::String`: the environment in which the app is running (dev, test, or prod)
- `cors_headers::Dict{String,String}`: default `Access-Control-*` CORS settings
- `cors_allowed_origins::Vector{String}`: allowed origin hosts for CORS settings
- `log_level::Logging.LogLevel`: logging severity level
- `log_to_file::Bool`: if `true`, information will be logged to file besides REPL
- `log_requests::Bool`: if `true`, requests will be automatically logged
- `inflector_irregulars::Vector{Tuple{String,String}}`: additional irregular singular-plural forms to be used by the Inflector
- `run_as_server::Bool`: when `true`, the server thread is launched synchronously to avoid that the script exits
- `websockets_server::Bool`: if `true`, the websocket server is also started together with the web server
- `websockets_port::Int`: the port for the websocket server (default `server_port`)
- `initializers_folder::String`: the folder where the initializers are located (default "initializers/")
- `path_config::String`: the path to the configurations folder (default "config/")
- `path_env::String`: the path to the environment files (default "<path_config>/env/")
- `path_app::String`: the path to the app files (default "app/")
- `html_parser_close_tag::String`: default " /". Can be changed to an empty string "" so the single tags would not be closed.
- `webchannels_keepalive_frequency::Int`: default `30000`. Frequency in milliseconds to send keepalive messages to webchannel/websocket to keep the connection alive. Set to `0` to disable keepalive messages.

Moreover, the `Configuration` module provides helper functions such as `env` to check the current environment. See the [API docs](https://learn.genieframework.com/docs/api/server/configuration) for more details.
