---
title: Component directives
description: How to use directives to ater the behavior of a component.
---

# Component directives

A directive in the context of web development and frameworks like Vue.js, Angular, or similar, is a special token in the markup that tells the library or framework to do something to an element in the page. Directives are extended HTML attributes prefixed with a special character or keyword, often a symbol like v- in Vue.js or ng- in Angular. They apply reactive behavior to the DOM or can even transform the DOM element and its children.

[Vue.js directives](https://vuejs.org/api/built-in-directives.html) are parameters of the type `v-`, like `v-if` or `v-on`. In stipple, these are implemented through the macros `@click`, `@on`,  `@iif`, `@els`, `@elsiif`, `@recur`, `@text`, `@bind`, `@data` and `@showif`. Each macro provides a way to manipulate a component in UI code by generating the equivalent HTML as:

```julia-repl
julia> span(@showif(true))
"<span v-show=\"true\"></span>"

julia> span(@click(:mybutton))
"<span v-on:click=\"mybutton = true\"></span>"

julia> span(@click("process = !process"))
"<span v-on:click=\"process = !process\"></span>"
```

Note that, if a directive takes a string argument, its content must be valid Javascript code.

## Loop component generation with `@recur`

The `@recur` macro is used to generate UI components in a loop over a list. This macro adds a `for` loop that iterates over the specified list. In each iteration, the nested components are evaluated with the current value of the loop variable. 


```julia
module App
using GenieFramework
@genietools

@app begin
    @out messages = ["msg1", "msg2", "msg3"]
end

function ui()
    row([card(style="margin: 10px;", @recur("msg in messages"), [
        p("{{msg}}")
    ]),])
end
@page("/", ui)
end
```

In this example, the `@recur` macro is used to iterate over the `messages` list. For each message in the list, a paragraph (`p`) component is created with the content of the message. This results in a row of cards, each containing a paragraph with one of the messages. 

The `@recur` macro is particularly useful when you need to generate a large number of similar components based on a list of data. It allows you to avoid repetitive code and makes your app more maintainable and scalable.
