---
toc: true
---
### Managing the database schema with `SearchLight` migrations

Database migrations provide a way to reliably, consistently and repeatedly apply (and undo) changes to the structure of
your database (known as "schema transformations"). They are specialised scripts for adding, removing and altering DB
tables – these scripts are placed under version control and are managed by a dedicated system which knows which scripts
have been run and which not, and is able to run them in the correct order.

SearchLight needs its own DB table to keep track of the state of the migrations so let's set it up:

```julia
julia> SearchLight.Migrations.init()
[ Info: Created table schema_migrations
```

This command sets up our database with the needed table in order to manage migrations.

---
**PRO TIP**

You can use the SearchLight API to execute random queries against the database backend. For example we can confirm that
the table is really there:

```julia
julia> SearchLight.query("SELECT name FROM sqlite_master WHERE type ='table' AND name NOT LIKE 'sqlite_%'")
┌ Info: SELECT name FROM sqlite_master WHERE type ='table' AND name NOT LIKE 'sqlite_%'
└

1×1 DataFrames.DataFrame
│ Row │ name              │
│     │ String⍰           │
├─────┼───────────────────┤
│ 1   │ schema_migrations │
```

The result is a `DataFrame` object.

#### Writing the table migration

Lets begin by writing the migration to create our books table. SearchLight provides a powerful DSL for writing migrations.
Each migration file needs to define two methods: `up` which applies the changes – and `down` which undoes the effects of
the `up` method. So in our `up` method we want to create the table – and in `down` we want to drop the table.

The naming convention for tables in SearchLight is that the table name should be pluralized (`books`) – because a table
contains multiple _books_ (and each row represents an object, a single _book_).
But don't worry, the migration file should already be pre-populated with the correct table name.

Edit the `db/migrations/*_create_table_books.jl` file and make it look like this:

```julia
module CreateTableBooks

import SearchLight.Migrations: create_table, column, primary_key, add_index, drop_table

function up()
  create_table(:books) do
    [
      primary_key()
      column(:title, :string, limit = 100)
      column(:author, :string, limit = 100)
    ]
  end

  add_index(:books, :title)
  add_index(:books, :author)
end

function down()
  drop_table(:books)
end

end
```

The code is pretty easy to follow: in the `up` function we call `create_table` and pass an array of columns: a primary
key, a `title` column and an `author` column (both strings have a max length of 100). We also add two indices (one on
the `title` and the other on the `author` columns). As for the `down` method, it invokes the `drop_table` function to
remove the table.

#### Running the migration

We can see what SearchLight knows about our migrations with the `SearchLight.Migrations.status` command:

```julia
julia> SearchLight.Migrations.status()
|   | Module name & status                   |
|   | File name                              |
|---|----------------------------------------|
|   |                 CreateTableBooks: DOWN |
| 1 | 2020020909574048_create_table_books.jl |
```

So our migration is in the `down` state – meaning that its `up` method has not been run. We can easily fix this:

```julia
julia> SearchLight.Migrations.last_up()
[ Info: Executed migration CreateTableBooks up
```

If we recheck the status, the migration is up:

```julia
julia> SearchLight.Migrations.status()
|   | Module name & status                   |
|   | File name                              |
|---|----------------------------------------|
|   |                   CreateTableBooks: UP |
| 1 | 2020020909574048_create_table_books.jl |
```

Our table is ready!


### Defining the model

Now it's time to edit our model file at `app/resources/books/Books.jl`. Another convention in SearchLight is that we're
using the pluralized name (`Books`) for the module – because it's for managing multiple books. And within it we define a
type (a `mutable struct`), called `Book` – which represents an item (a single book) which maps to a row in the underlying database.

Edit the `Books.jl` file to make it look like this:

```julia
# Books.jl
module Books

import SearchLight: AbstractModel, DbId, save!
import Base: @kwdef

export Book

@kwdef mutable struct Book <: AbstractModel
  id::DbId = DbId()
  title::String = ""
  author::String = ""
end

end
```

We defined a `mutable struct` which matches our previous `Book` type by using the `@kwdef` macro, in order to also define
a keyword constructor, as SearchLight needs it.

### Using our model

To make things more interesting, we should import our current books into the database. Add this function to the
`Books.jl` module, under the `Book()` constructor definition (just above the module's closing `end`):

```julia
# Books.jl
function seed()
  BillGatesBooks = [
    ("The Best We Could Do", "Thi Bui"),
    ("Evicted: Poverty and Profit in the American City", "Matthew Desmond"),
    ("Believe Me: A Memoir of Love, Death, and Jazz Chickens", "Eddie Izzard"),
    ("The Sympathizer!", "Viet Thanh Nguyen"),
    ("Energy and Civilization, A History", "Vaclav Smil")
  ]

  for b in BillGatesBooks
    Book(title = b[1], author = b[2]) |> save!
  end
end
