
<a id='Loading-and-starting-Genie-apps'></a>

<a id='Loading-and-starting-Genie-apps-1'></a>

# Loading and starting Genie apps


Genie apps are Julia projects that are composed of multiple modules distributed over multiple files. Loading a Genie app will bring into scope all the app's files, including the main app module, controllers, models, etcetera.


<a id='Starting-a-Genie-REPL-session-MacOS-/-Linux'></a>

<a id='Starting-a-Genie-REPL-session-MacOS-/-Linux-1'></a>

## Starting a Genie REPL session MacOS / Linux


The quickest way to load an existing app in an interactive REPL is by executing `bin/repl` in the os shell, while in the app's root folder.


```sh
$ bin/repl
```


The Genie app will be loaded.


In order to start the web server, you can next execute:


```julia
julia> up()
```


If you want to directly start the server without having access to the interactive REPL, use `bin/server` instead of `bin/repl`:


```sh
$ bin/server
```


This will automatically start the web server *in non interactive mode*.


<a id='Starting-a-Genie-REPL-on-Windows'></a>

<a id='Starting-a-Genie-REPL-on-Windows-1'></a>

## Starting a Genie REPL on Windows


On Windows the workflow is similar to macOS and Linux, but dedicated Windows scripts, `repl.bat`, `server.bat` are provided inside the project folder, within the `bin/` directory. Double click them or execute them in the os shell (cmd, Windows Terminal, PowerShell, etc) to start an interactive REPL session or a server session, respectively, as explained in the previous paragraphs (the *nix and the Windows scripts run int the same way).


---


**HEADS UP**


It is possible that the scripts in the `bin/` folder are missing - this is usually the case if the app was generated on an operating system (ex *nix) and ported to a different one (ex Windows). You can create them at anytime by running the generator in the Genie/Julia REPL (at the root of the Genie project).


To generate the Windows scripts:


```julia
julia> using Genie

julia> Genie.Generator.setup_windows_bin_files()
```


And for the *nix scripts:


```julia
julia> Genie.Generator.setup_nix_bin_files()
```


Alternatively, we can pass the path where we want the files to be created as the argument to `setup_*_bin_files`:


```julia
julia> Genie.Generator.setup_windows_bin_files("path/to/your/Genie/project")
```


<a id='REPL-/-Jupyter-/-Pluto-/-VSCode-/-other-Julia-environment'></a>

<a id='REPL-/-Jupyter-/-Pluto-/-VSCode-/-other-Julia-environment-1'></a>

## REPL / Jupyter / Pluto / VSCode / other Julia environment


You might need to make the local package environment available, if it's not already activated:


```julia
using Pkg
Pkg.activate(".")
```


Then:


```julia
using Genie

Genie.loadapp()
```


This will assume that we're already in the app's root folder, and load the app (in other words that the `bootstrap.jl` file is in the current working directory). Otherwise you can also pass the path to the Genie app's folder as the argument for `loadapp`.


```julia
julia> Genie.loadapp("path/to/your/Genie/project")
```


<a id='Manual-loading-in-Julia's-REPL'></a>

<a id='Manual-loading-in-Julia's-REPL-1'></a>

## Manual loading in Julia's REPL


In order to load a Genie app within an open Julia REPL session, first make sure that you're in the root dir of a Genie app. This is the project's folder and you can tell by the fact that there should be a `bootstrap.jl` file, plus Julia's `Project.toml` and `Manifest.toml` files, amongst others. You can `julia> cd(...)` or `shell> cd ...` your way into the folder of the Genie app.


Next, from within the active Julia REPL session, we have to activate the local package environment:


```julia
julia> ] # enter pkg> mode

pkg> activate .
```


Then, back to the julian prompt, run the following to load the Genie app:


```julia
julia> using Genie

julia> Genie.loadapp()
```


The app's environment will now be loaded.


In order to start the web server execute


```julia
julia> up()
```

